---
layout: post
title:  "English Tense (The future continuous)"
date:   2022-05-15 20:30:00 +0800
categories: English
tags: Grammar Tense
---

# The future continuous

> The future continuous can be formed using `will` or `going to`.It describes an event or situation that will be in progress at some point in the future.

## With `will`

> The future continuous describes an event that will be in progress at a given time in the future which is often stated. The event will start before the stated time and may continue after it.

eg: `Right now I am working in a cafe. In 10 years' time, I hope I will be running a bistro.`

* `Right now I am working in a cafe.` the present continuous.
* `In 10 years' time, I hope I will be running a bistro.` future continuous

### how to form

`Subject` + `will be` + `present participle` + `object`.

### the future continuous with `anyway`

> the future continous can also be used to talk about events that are going to happen as `matter of course` or `anyway`

* A: Oh no, I have run out of milk.
* B: I can get some for you later.
* A: No,please don't worry.
* B: ***It's okay, I will be driving past the store anyway.***

### neutral questions

> the future continuous is also used to ask neutral questions: questions asked for information,not to make a request.

1. neutral questions
  * A: Will you be coming into work tomorrow ? 
  * B: Yes, I willl.
  * A: Ok, let's talk about the report then.

2. request
  * A: Will you come into work tomorrow please ?
  * B: Sure, no problem.

### the future continuous to talk about the present

> You can also use the future continuous to speculate about what is happening at the **present moment**.

1. eg1
  * A: Where is Sarah ?
  * B: Shell will be studying in the library probably.
2. eg2
  * A: Why is Nev late ?
  * B: He will be taking his children to school.

## With `going to`

> The future continuous can sometimes be formed with `going to` instead of `will`, but this is less common. It can be used in most future continuous constructions except to speculate about the present.

eg: `I can't come out this evening.I'm going to be studying all night.`

### how to form

`Subject` + `Be` + `going to be` + `present participle` + `rest of sentence.`
eg:

1. I want to go away on Saturday, but I am going to be working all weekend.
2. I am going to be staying with my husband's family for the hoildays this year.