---
layout: post
title:  "English Tense (The future)"
date:   2022-05-15 20:00:00 +0800
categories: English
tags: Grammar Tense
---

# The future

## the future with `going to` (FIRST)

> Future forms in English are formed using auxiliary verbs.One of the most commonly used constructions is `going to` plus the base form of the main verb.

#### how to form

`Subject` + `is` + `going to` + `verb` + `rest of sentence`

#### `going to` for future plans.

> Going to is used to talk about future events that have been planned in advance,rather than decided upon at the time of speaking.

eg: `I'm going to buy a new car.`

#### `going to` for prediction

> Going to is also used to make predictions when there is evidence in the present moment.

eg: `Look at those clouds.It's going to rain soon.`

#### questions with `going to`

Questions with `going to` are formed by swapping the subject and `be`.

* `Michelle is going to be at the meeting.`
* `Is Michelle going to be at the meeting?`

## The future with will (SECOND)

> `Will` is used to form some future tenses in English. It can be used in several different ways,which are all different from the future with `going to`.

#### how to form the future with will

`subject` + `will` + `verb` + `rest of sentence`.

#### usage

1. To make a prediction about what you think will happen.(no firm evidence) `Wait a few minutes.I think it will stop raining soon.`

2. To offer to do something for someone. `You look frozen.I will make you some hot soup.`

3. To make a promise. `We will be there by eight. Don't worry!`

4. To describe a decsion you have just made. `I know! I will buy surfboard for his birthday.`

#### Think with will

> `Think` can be used with `will` to show that a prediction is just an opinion, or a decision is not final.

eg:

* I think that we will have enough food for the party.
* I am tired.I think I will go to bed.

#### Future with Shall

> shall is used instead of `will` when asking for a decision, or making offers or suggestions. In there cases, it is only used with `I` or `we`.It is rarely used in US english.

eg: `Shall I pick you up or shall we meet at the restaurant?`

## The present for future events (THIRD)

> The present simple and present continuous can be used to talk about future events that are already planned. **They are usually used with a future time word or time phrase**

### The present simple for future events (THIRD-FIRST)

> The present simple can be used to talk about events that are **scheduled** to take place in the future.

eg: `The train arrives at 10pm tonight.`

#### how to form

`Subject` + `present simple` + `future time phrase`

### The present continuous for future events (THIRD-SECOND)

> The present continuous can be used to talk about pre-arranged future events. Time markers usually show whether the event is in the present or future.

eg: `At the moment Dave is working, but tomorrow he is playing golf.`

* At the moment Dave is working -> present continuous
* But tomorrow he is playing golf. -> the present continuous for future events.

#### how to form

`Subject` + `present continous` + `future time phrase`
