---
layout: post
title: China, US have much to gain from healthy competition
date: 2022-06-01 22:00:00 +0800
categories: English
tags: Vocabulary
---

# China, US have much to gain from healthy competition

**Delivering**`(v|交付，发表，投掷，传达)` a speech at the George Washington University on May 26, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken **reaffirmed**`(vt|重申)` the Joe Biden administration's "3C" policy toward China: **cooperate**`(vi|合作)`, **compete**`(vi|参加比赛，竞争)` and **contest**`(n|比赛|v|争夺|vt|争取赢得)`. He also **summed**`(n|全部，总和)` up`(sum up| 总结)` Biden's **approach**`(v|靠近|n|接近，途径)` to China with three words, "invest, align and compete".

Obviously, the Biden administration stresses "competition" in the US' strategy vis-à-vis China for the 2020s decade. This matches the current freezing reality of **bilateral**`(adj|双边的)` ties across the **Pacific**`(adj|大平洋的|n|太平洋)`－China and the US are indeed competing for trade, investment, technology, innovation, **influence**`(vt|影响|n|影响)` and **geostrategy**`(n|地理)`, **to name a few**`(to name a few| 仅举几个例子)`.

Blinken should be **commended**`(v|称赞)` for including "cooperation" in the US' policy toward China. This indicates the **ongoing**`(adj|仍在进行的)` **political**`(adj|政治的，政府的)` correction in the **incumbent**`(adj|现任的|n|在职的)` administration, differentiating it from that of the previous administration.

While US President Joe Biden has carried on much of the policy left by his **predecessor**`(n|前辈)` Donald Trump, he has shown an **intention**`(n|目的，意图)` to build **guardrails**`(n|护栏)` to protect China-US competition, not to **derail**`(vi|脱轨|vt|使脱轨)` it.

There are many **regional**`(adj|地区性的，局部|n|分部)` and global challenges－**climate**`(n|气候)` change, the Korean **Peninsula**`(n|半岛)` nuclear issue, Iran's position in resetting the nuclear deal, the COVID-19 **pandemic**`(adj|全国性的|n|大规模流行病)`, global fight on **terrorism**`(n|恐怖主义的)`, not to mention the food and energy crises **looming**`(n|织布机|v|阴森地逼近)` large on the **horizon**`(n|地平线)`. To address each and every of them, the world needs China's **participation**`(n|参加)` and contribution.

Yet the list of competition seems longer: values, rights, **fairness**`(n|公平)`, rules, trade, market, supply chains, innovation, high-tech **decoupling**`(vt|分离)`, **geostrategic**`(adj|地缘政治的)` competition in Eastern Europe and the Indo-Pacific region, apart from outer space. In Blinken's **vision**`(n|视力，视野，视觉|v|幻觉)`, such a strategic competition has much to do with the **survival**`(n|存活，生存)` of the post-World War II **liberal**`(n|开明的人,自由主义|adj|慷慨，自由主义的)` world order.

China certainly has benefitted from the postwar order since launching reform and opening-up. Still, Beijing has to improve its **external**`(adj|外面的)` environment, especially in its neighborhood. For this purpose, Chinese leaders have **reiterated**`(vt|重申，反复讲，反复做)` that the door of China's opening-up will only open wider and wider.

The rule-based international order is not only **applicable**`(adj|适用的，合适的)` to China and few other countries, but also the rest of the world. As the key architect of such a system, the United States has equal **obligation**`(n|义务)` to follow the **terms**`(n|术语，任期，期限|vt|把...称为|pl|关系)` of the existing rule-based international order, primarily defined by the United Nations Charter.

It was the US that refused to **ratify**`(vt|批准，认可)` the Kyoto Protocol, and quit the Paris Agreement, **Joint**`(n|关节|adj|联合的|v|结合)` **Comprehensive**`(adj|综合的，有充分理解的|n|综合测验)` Plan of Action (Iran nuclear deal) and the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement. And although under the Biden administration, the US has rejoined the Paris climate accord and is considering getting back with Iran in the **breached**`(v|破坏|n|破裂)` 2015 nuclear deal while working to build the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for **Prosperity**`(n|繁荣)`, who knows whether it will not **withdraw**`(v|取款，撤退，收回，退出)` from them again.

Also, it was the US that aligned with China during World War II and helped **reunite**`(v|重逢，再联合)` Taiwan with the motherland. But during the Korean War (1950-53), the then US president said the status of Taiwan was uncertain. And it is the US that seems to be breaking its promise and international law that there is only one China and Taiwan is an **integral**`(adj|必需的，必不可少的)` part of China.

Sino-US relations were normalized in the 1970s, and are based on the one-China policy and the three joint **communiques**`(n|公报)` signed by the two sides.

But the US soon passed the "Taiwan Relations Act" and **subsequently**`(adv|随后，后来)` took its policy of "TRA plus three communiques". In 1982, when the US signed the third communique with Beijing on arms sale to Taiwan, it also made "six **assurances**`(n|信心，自信，保险)`". The Trump administration was the first to **uphold**`(v|维护，支持，举起，赞成)` them openly, and now Biden defines his one-China policy as "TRA, three communiques plus six assurances".

**Despite**`(prep|尽管，不顾|n|侮辱|v|憎恨，轻视)` that, the US is welcome to invest in China, and should **lift**`(v|升起|n|电梯)` the **hurdles**`(n|障碍，跨栏用栏|v|跨栏)` for China to invest in the US, because the more they invest, the more they would benefit from each other. And through competition, the two sides could improve the quality of their products and services－and even conceive some **cooperative**`(adj|协作的，合作的|n|合作社)` investments, which could prevent other counties from aligning with one side or the other.

In short, we welcome healthy investment for constructive competition and the application of a rule-based order to all **competitors**`(n|参赛者，竞争对手)`.
