---
layout: post
title: The passive
date: 2022-05-16 10:14:00 +0800
categories: English
tags: Grammar Passive
---

# The Passive in the present simple passive.

> In the present passive, the present simple verb becomes a past participle.

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`Many people study this book.`|`The book is studied by many people.`|

## further examples

> The passive is used when the **agent(the person or thing doing the action) is obvious, unknow, or unimportant**. It is also useful when describing a process where **the result of the action is important**.

eg: 

1. Criminals are arrested every day in the town.
  * The speaker doesn't mention the agent because the verb obviously refers to police

2. Are the posters printed on quality paper ?
  * The agent is not mentioned because the process is more important.
  * be and the subject swap places to form question.

## how to form

> All passives use a from of `be` with `past participle`.The agent (the thing doing the action) can be introduced with `by`, but the sentence would still make sense without it.

`Subejct` + `be(am/is/are)` + `past praticiple` + `by` + `rest of sentence.`

# The present continuous passive

> The present continous passive is used to refer to ongoing actions.

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`Developers are building lots of new houses in the area.`|`Lots of new houses are being built in the area.`|

## futher examples

* You can't use the pool today because it is being cleaned.
* Dont't worry, the food is being cooked as we speak.
* I have to walk to work while my car is being repaired.

## how to form

`Subject` + `be(am/is/are)` + `being` + `past participle` + `rest of sentence.`

# The passive in the past

> English uses the passive voice in the past to stress the effect of an action that happened in the past, rather than the cause of that action.

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`The fire destroyed the buildings.`|`The building were destroyed by the fire.`|


## futher examples

* The trees were cut down last year.
* The rail road was damaged during the storm.

## how to form

`Subject` + `was/were` + `past participle` + `rest of sentence.`

# The past continuous passive

> The past continuous can also be used in the passive voice. It is used to refer to ongoing actions in the past.

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`Secret agents were watching him.`|`He was being wathed by secret agents.`|


## futher examples

* The students were being taught how to write good essays.
* I went for lunch while my car was being fixed.
* We bought our house while it was being built.


## how to form

`Subject` + `was/were` + `being` + `past participle` + `by` + `rest of sentence.`

# The present perfect passive

> The present perfect passive is used to talk about events in the past that still have an effect on the present moment.

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`Don't worry, I have fed the cats.`|`Don't worry, the cats have been fed.`|

## futher exmaples

* This door has been painted beautifully.
* Do you know if all the lights have been turned off?
* Has your computer been fixed yet ?It broke months ago!

## how to form

`Subject` + `has/have` + `been` + `past participle`

# The past perfect passive

> The past perfect passive is used to refer to events that happened before another event in the past.

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`Unfortunately, the organizer had canceled the party.`|`Unfortunately, the part had been canceled`|

## further examples

* The class hadn't been told that the lecture had been canceled.
* Anna was so happy that her cart had been found.

## how to form

`Subject` + `Had Been` + `past participle`

# The passive in the future

> English uses the passive voice in the future to stress the effect of an action that will happen in the future, rather than cause of that action.

> The future simple passive is usually formed with `will` rather than `going to`

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`Hopefully, the police will catch the thief very soon`|`Hopefully, the thief willn be caught very soon.`|

## futher examples

* Don't worry, the house will be finished very soon.
* An email will be sent to you all next week with more details.
* Sorry, but the power will be turned off between 2pm and 5pm.

## how to form

`Subject` + `will be` + `past participle` + `rest of sentence.`

# The future perfect passive

> The future perfect passive is used talk about events that will be finished at some point int the future.

|nromal|passive|
|---|---|
|`The mechanic will have fixed the car by 5pm.`|`The car will have been fixed by 5pm.`|

## futher examples

* We think every ticket will have been bought before the end of the day.
* Hurry up or all the goods seats will have been taken already.
* Will those letters have been sent out before lunchtime tomorrow ?

## how to form

`Subject` + `will have been` + `past participle.`

# The passive with modals

|normal|future|
|---|---|
|`You should tell her the exciting news.`|`She should be told the exciting news.`|

## futher examples

* Should the package be delivered to your house or your office ?
* All new employees must be shown what to do if there has fire.

## how to form

`Subject` + `Modal verb` + `be` + `past participle` + `rest of sentence.`

# Modals in the perfect passive

> Modals in perfect tense can become passive by replacing `have` with `have been`

|normal|passive|
|---|---|
|`The managers should have given Daniel more time.`|`Daniel should have been given more time.`|

## further examples

* We should have been told that the concert was canceled!
* The robber would have been arrested if he hadn't been so quick.

## how to form

`Subject` + `Modal Verb` + `Have Been` + `Past Participle` + `rest of sentence`

# Other Passive constructions

## Reporting with passives

> Some passive constructions are used to distance the writer or speaker from the facets.They are often used to academic writing or new reports.

* `It has been reported` that three sailors have disappeared.
* `The race is known` to be extremely dangerous.
* `There are said` to be at least 20 boats in the search party.

## using `get`

> `Get` can sometimes replace `be` in passive sentences. This form is more informal than the passive with `be`.

* `Bikes get stolen in this town every day.`
* `My friend's bike got stolen yesterday.`

### how to form

`Subject` + `GET/GOT` + `past pasticiple` + `rest of sentence`
